
**RB109 Mock Written Assessment**

**Question 1: Variable Scope (Basic)**

```
start 18:15
end   18:25
total 00:10
```

What will the following code output and why?

```ruby
a = 5  
  
def some_method  
  a = 3  
  puts a  
end  
  
some_method  
puts a  
```

The variable `a` is initialised with a reference to the integer `5`. 

The `some_method` method invocation is executed. Inside the method definition, `a = 3` is an initialisation of a local variable called `a` inside the method definition and not a reassignment of the outer variable `a` due to scoping rules of a method definition: variables outside of the method definition can only be accessed and modified if they are passed as arguments and mutating operations are performed on those corresponding objects. Therefore the outer variable initialised on line 1 cannot be accessed by the `some_method` method. `puts a` outputs the value of the local variable `a`, which is `3`. The method's return value is the same as the result of the last evaluated expression, `puts a`, which is `nil` (since `puts` returns `nil`).

On the last line of the code snippet, the `puts a` method call outputs `5`, because the only variable called `a` that is available to this method call is the outer variable `a`. This is also consistent with the rules of a method definition's self contained scope: variables initialised in the method definition cannot be accessed by the outer code.

The output is:

```
3
5
```

This code demonstrates:
- variable scope of a method definition
- output (via `puts` vs return value of a method)


**Question 2: Method Return Values (Intermediate)**

```
start 18:27
end   18:41
total 00:24
```

What will the following code return and why? Be specific about what happens at each step.

```ruby
def fix(value)  
  value.upcase!  
  value.concat('!')  
  value  
end  
  
s = 'hello'  
t = fix(s)  
  
puts s  
puts t 
``` 

The variable `s` is initialised with a reference to the string object `'hello'`, and the variable `s` is initialised with a reference to the return value of `fix(s)`.

Inside the method definition, the local variable `num` is bound to the same string object `'hello'` that `s` references—essentially, the method parameter receives a reference to this object. The destructive `upcase!` method is called on `value`, which mutates the string object to uppercase characters, resulting in `'HELLO'`, and on the following line, another destructive method `concat` is called on `value`, concatenating the string with its argument, which evaluates to `'HELLO!'`. On the last line of the method body, `value` evaluates to the mutated string `'HELLO'`—this result is also the same as the method's implicit return value (since it is the last evaluated expression in the method), which is passed back to the calling code `t = fix(s)`. `t` references the string `'HELLO!'`.

The `puts s` and `puts t` method calls output the same string `'HELLO!'`, which suggests that both `s` and `t` contain references to the original object that was passed in initially. This is due to Ruby's pass by reference value behaviour when objects are passed to methods as arguments during method invocations.

Method definitions create their own scope: variables initialised in the outer scope cannot be accessed or modified from within a method unless they are passed in as arguments and mutating methods are performed on those corresponding objects. In this example, the mutating methods `upcase!` and `concat` operate on the original string object, permanently modifying the object itself, and these mutations can be examined through any of the object's references, including the outer variable `s`. 

The final output is:

```
HELLO!
HELLO!
```


**Question 3: Array Operations (Intermediate)**

```
start 18:44
end   18:58
total 00:14
```

Explain what happens in each line of the following code and what will be output:

```ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]  
new_arr = arr.select do |num|  
  num + 1  
end  
p new_arr  
```

The variable `arr` is initialised with a reference to the array object `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

`new_arr` is initialised with a reference to the return value of the `select` method called on `arr`. Unlike the `each` method, which returns the original calling object, `select` returns an array containing elements for which the block returns a truthy value. (`select` creates a temporary empty array `[]` that it populates with those elements ; if no changes are made to the return array during iteration, it returns the empty array.)

In each iteration, the block parameter `num` is assigned to the value of the current element, starting at index 0. Inside the block, `num + 1` is evaluated, which increments the value of `num` by `1`, and returns this result, which is also the block's return value (as it is also the last evaluated expression in the block). `select` then checks for the truthiness of the return value to determine if the original array's element should be added to the return array. Since every expression in Ruby is considered truthy except for `false` and `nil`, `num + 1` will always return a truthy value, and subsequently the element is added to the return array. Once all iterations are complete, `select` returns the resulting return array, which is the object that `new_arr` references.

Line by line it looks like this:

- On the first iteration (element at index 0), `num` is `1`, so `num + 1` evaluates to `2`; the block returns `2`; `select` determines that the block's return value is truthy, so the return array is populated with the array's element. The return block is now `[1]`
- On the second iteration, `num` is `2`, `num + 1` evaluates to `3`; the block returns `3`, which is truthy, so element of the iteration is added to the return block which is now `[1, 2]`
- On the third iteration, `num` is `3`, `num + 1` evaluates to `4`; the block returns `4`, which is truthy, so element of the iteration is added to the return block which is now `[1, 2, 3]`
- On the fourth iteration, `num` is `4`, `num + 1` evaluates to `5`; the block returns `5`, which is truthy, so element of the iteration is added to the return block which is now `[1, 2, 3, 4]`
- On the fifth iteration, `num` is `5`, `num + 1` evaluates to `6`; the block returns `6`, which is truthy, so element of the iteration is added to the return block which is now `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`

`p new_arr` outputs a "raw" representation of its argument in a single line, including square brackets.

Output:

```
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
```


**Question 4: Variable as Pointers (Intermediate)**

```
start 19:05
end   19:10
total 00:05
```

What will the following code output and why?
  
```ruby
a = "hello"  
b = a  
a = "goodbye"  
  
puts a  
puts b  
```

`a` is initialised with a reference to the string object `"hello"`. In the assignment of one variable to another, the variable `b` receives a copy of the reference stored in `a`, resulting in both variables containing references to the same string object.

On line 3, `a` undergoes reassignment, which creates a new string object `"goodbye"` and `a` now contains a reference to this object. Reassignment operations not only create new objects but also change what a variable references; the reference to the original object is disconnected from the variable that's being reassigned, while `a` continues to reference the original string object.

`puts a` will output the new string object `"goodbye"`, while `puts b` outputs the original string object `"hello"`.

Output: 

```
goodbye
hello
```