
# Short Long Short

Write a method that takes two strings as arguments, determines the longest of the two strings, and then returns the result of concatenating the shorter string, the longer string, and the shorter string once again. You may assume that the strings are of different lengths.

Examples:

```ruby
short_long_short('abc', 'defgh') == "abcdefghabc"
short_long_short('abcde', 'fgh') == "fghabcdefgh"
short_long_short('', 'xyz') == "xyz"
```

##### Answer

```ruby
def short_long_short(first, second)
  shortest = (first.size < second.size ? first : second)
  longest = (first.size > second.size ? first : second)
  shortest + longest + shortest
end

p short_long_short('abc', 'defgh') == "abcdefghabc"
p short_long_short('abcde', 'fgh') == "fghabcdefgh"
p short_long_short('', 'xyz') == "xyz"
```

# What Century is That?

Write a method that takes a year as input and returns the century. The return value should be a string that begins with the century number, and ends with `st`, `nd`, `rd`, or `th` as appropriate for that number.

New centuries begin in years that end with `01`. So, the years 1901-2000 comprise the [20th century](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/20th_century).

Examples:

```ruby
century(2000) == '20th'
century(2001) == '21st'
century(1965) == '20th'
century(256) == '3rd'
century(5) == '1st'
century(10103) == '102nd'
century(1052) == '11th'
century(1127) == '12th'
century(11201) == '113th'
```

# Leap Years (Part 1)

In the modern era under the Gregorian Calendar, leap years occur in every year that is evenly divisible by 4, unless the year is also divisible by 100. If the year is evenly divisible by 100, then it is not a leap year unless the year is evenly divisible by 400.

Assume this rule is good for any year greater than year 0. Write a method that takes any year greater than 0 as input, and returns true if the year is a leap year, or false if it is not a leap year.

```ruby
leap_year?(2016) == true
leap_year?(2015) == false
leap_year?(2100) == false
leap_year?(2400) == true
leap_year?(240000) == true
leap_year?(240001) == false
leap_year?(2000) == true
leap_year?(1900) == false
leap_year?(1752) == true
leap_year?(1700) == false
leap_year?(1) == false
leap_year?(100) == false
leap_year?(400) == true
```

# Leap Years (Part 2)

A continuation of the previous exercise.

The British Empire adopted the Gregorian Calendar in 1752, which was a leap year. Prior to 1752, the Julian Calendar was used. Under the Julian Calendar, leap years occur in any year that is evenly divisible by 4.

Using this information, update the method from the previous exercise to determine leap years both before and after 1752.

```ruby
leap_year?(2016) == true
leap_year?(2015) == false
leap_year?(2100) == false
leap_year?(2400) == true
leap_year?(240000) == true
leap_year?(240001) == false
leap_year?(2000) == true
leap_year?(1900) == false
leap_year?(1752) == true
leap_year?(1700) == true
leap_year?(1) == false
leap_year?(100) == true
leap_year?(400) == true
```

# Multiples of 3 and 5

Write a method that searches for all multiples of 3 or 5 that lie between 1 and some other number, and then computes the sum of those multiples. For instance, if the supplied number is `20`, the result should be `98` (3 + 5 + 6 + 9 + 10 + 12 + 15 + 18 + 20).

You may assume that the number passed in is an integer greater than 1.

Examples

```ruby
multisum(3) == 3
multisum(5) == 8
multisum(10) == 33
multisum(1000) == 234168
```

# Running Totals

Write a method that takes an Array of numbers, and returns an Array with the same number of elements, and each element has the running total from the original Array.

Examples:

```ruby
running_total([2, 5, 13]) == [2, 7, 20]
running_total([14, 11, 7, 15, 20]) == [14, 25, 32, 47, 67]
running_total([3]) == [3]
running_total([]) == []
```

A running total is the sum of all values in a list up to and including the current element. Thus, the running total when looking at index 2 of the array `[14, 11, 7, 15, 20]` is 32 (14 + 11 + 7), while the running total at index 3 is 47 (14 + 11 + 7 + 15).

# Convert a String to a Number!

The `String#to_i` method converts a string of numeric characters (including an optional plus or minus sign) to an `Integer`. `String#to_i` and the `Integer` constructor (`Integer()`) behave similarly. In this exercise, you will create a method that does the same thing.

Write a method that takes a String of digits, and returns the appropriate number as an integer. You may not use any of the methods mentioned above.

For now, do not worry about leading `+` or `-` signs, nor should you worry about invalid characters; assume all characters will be numeric.

You may not use any of the standard conversion methods available in Ruby to convert a string to a number, such as `String#to_i`, `Integer()`, etc. Your method should do this the old-fashioned way and calculate the result by analyzing the characters in the string.

Examples

```ruby
string_to_integer('4321') == 4321
string_to_integer('570') == 570
```

# Convert a String to a Signed Number!

In the previous exercise, you developed a method that converts simple numeric strings to Integers. In this exercise, you're going to extend that method to work with signed numbers.

Write a method that takes a String of digits, and returns the appropriate number as an integer. The String may have a leading `+` or `-` sign; if the first character is a `+`, your method should return a positive number; if it is a `-`, your method should return a negative number. If no sign is given, you should return a positive number.

You may assume the string will always contain a valid number.

You may not use any of the standard conversion methods available in Ruby, such as `String#to_i`, `Integer()`, etc. You may, however, use the `string_to_integer` method from the previous lesson.

Examples

```ruby
string_to_signed_integer('4321') == 4321
string_to_signed_integer('-570') == -570
string_to_signed_integer('+100') == 100
```

# Convert a Number to a String!

In the previous two exercises, you developed methods that convert simple numeric strings to signed Integers. In this exercise and the next, you're going to reverse those methods.

Write a method that takes a positive integer or zero, and converts it to a string representation.

You may not use any of the standard conversion methods available in Ruby, such as `Integer#to_s`, `String()`, `Kernel#format`, etc. Your method should do this the old-fashioned way and construct the string by analyzing and manipulating the number.

Examples

```ruby
integer_to_string(4321) == '4321'
integer_to_string(0) == '0'
integer_to_string(5000) == '5000'
```

# Convert a Signed Number to a String!

In the previous exercise, you developed a method that converts non-negative numbers to strings. In this exercise, you're going to extend that method by adding the ability to represent negative numbers as well.

Write a method that takes an integer, and converts it to a string representation.

You may not use any of the standard conversion methods available in Ruby, such as `Integer#to_s`, `String()`, `Kernel#format`, etc. You may, however, use `integer_to_string` from the previous exercise.

Examples

```ruby
signed_integer_to_string(4321) == '+4321'
signed_integer_to_string(-123) == '-123'
signed_integer_to_string(0) == '0'
```

